in this lesson we're going to explore
the concept of defense in depth
if we look at the
az900 set of skills that are assessed
we're now diving into this describe
azure network security
which has a number of aspects we're
thinking about yes this concept of
defense in depth then we're going to
look at network security groups azure
firewall and the azure distributed
denial of service protection so that's
what we're going to cover over the next
few lessons
the whole point of defense in depth is
we don't just want one piece of
protection it could fail
we always want as many layers of
protection as possible so that if one is
compromised
there's another one waiting that can
hopefully then protect nothing is
perfect so if one layer has a floor and
is attacked hey there's another layer to
help protect them and hopefully at that
point we might then detect that attack
and be able to start responding that's
why you have castles they don't just
have a gate they have moats they have
lots of other things
so i can think about there's these
layers and just like onions hey we have
these layers and it can make us cry
but we have this pearl in the middle so
this pearl in the middle is our data
that's generally the most important
resource so when i think about data i
want to think about data encryption
i want to think about data
classification to help apply the right
types of protection to it
now around the data
i have the application
there's some application
layer
that provides the interaction to that
now i want to make sure my applications
are well written i want to make sure
they are secure they don't have
vulnerabilities
i want to have best practices we talked
about azure key vault i don't put
secrets in my app code
i might consider putting technologies in
front of my application which comes to
the layers idea that might things like
web application firewall to protect
against common types of attacks against
our applications
then i can think well there's a compute
layer
for example our vm itself
so i want to make sure my vms my
resources are secure they have firewalls
they are patched they have anti-malware
protection they have maybe server
detection capabilities if there is an
attack now obviously remember those
shared responsibilities if i'm using a
pass service i don't really have to
worry so much about that that's the
responsibility of azure to ensure that
next i think about the network
now the network there's obviously many
many aspects to that network layer this
is about thinking
always least privilege least access i
want to restrict what are the various
communications both within a network
don't have things talking over ports
that they don't need and definitely
coming in if things come in from the
internet i should very much be
restricting that to only a certain port
and only to some resource that
absolutely needs to offer the service
and generally we're going to put
something in front of that i don't want
internet talking directly to my app
server i have maybe a web application
firewall load balancers in front of that
we talk about xero trust i'm never going
to assume just because something's on
the network
i should talk to it i always want to
re-authenticate we validate they really
should be there i think about deny by
default i think about private
connectivity this is an azure service
when i'm interacting with it ideally
it's over a private connection that
could be a site-to-site vpn over the
internet an encrypted tunnel maybe it's
express route private peering
i can then think about the
perimeter so we think about the idea of
that perimeter network that's where if
there's things like distributed denial
of service attacks well i want to try
and stop those there so it doesn't
impact my actual services i want to be
able to filter those large scale attacks
before they have any impact on what
we're doing i may have edge firewall
devices before it starts talking to my
network
then we think about identity
identity and access
in the cloud whereas network was always
the security perimeter often identity
becomes the security perimeter
i want to make sure i'm always ensuring
the integrity of that identity get that
zero trust we don't trust anything
we always want to make sure that really
is who they say they are we think about
strong authentication
um multi-factor authentication
passwordless i want to audit events like
changes like signing events i have all
of those controls at the identity and
the access
and then of course there's just the
physical security
the data center itself now obviously in
the cloud that's the responsibility of
the cloud provider so microsoft for
example
but i think about every single one of
these layers now again depending on the
service i'm using the responsibility may
be different
if i'm using a sas
solution software's a service that
provides that business function
most of these are the responsibility of
the provider but again remember that
identity the identity is the the key to
unlock that access so if my identity is
not strong
it doesn't matter what else is done
so we always think about that identity
and the access if it's a pass solution
i'm very much focused on my app my data
but i want to pick the right
technologies around network and
perimeter and again identity
if it's i as i'm responsible for a lot
of this obviously physical security i
never am but a lot of these other things
i have to go and choose and pick the
right components to be as secure as
possible
you'll often hear the term cia
so if this is about defense in depth
there's this concept of
i i can think about confidentiality
so confidentiality is least privileged
privilege access and only when i
actually need it
then i think about integrity
i want to make sure nothing is tampering
with the data be at rest or in transit
or maybe it's just a certain application
flow
i might use signatures and digitally
sign them to ensure there's been no
modification to packets in flow or
actually on disk at rest but i need to
make sure i have that integrity
and then i think about availability
so availability is hey well remember
that distributed denial of service
attack if i can't get to my service and
use it
it's really not that useful so defense
in depth has many different aspects to
it and we always want to consider all of
them